Please click on the Your Portfolio button
on the top right-hand side
of your Excel file here okay.
And I'm gonna go into much more detail
on what the columns mean when we cover
stocks in the next section.
But rather than discussing boring theory,
let's just jump right in and create a portfolio.
Okay and I will keep this initially
at a really high level for this exercise.
And then we will drill down and discuss
stocks, bonds, real estates,
commodities, et cetera,
after this section okay.
Then we will do a diversification exercise
after we cover the aforementioned topics okay.
So if you haven't already done so,
please open your complete
Personal Finance Dashboard Excel spreadsheet,
and in the top right-hand corner,
you will see a gray button called
Your Portfolio.
Please click it.
Welcome to Exercise Number 18.
And so what we're gonna do is
we are going to populate our portfolio here
with 10 different tickers okay,
and a couple of those tickers will be ETFs.
And the way to do this is to
please follow these instructions.
So first of all make sure
that you're here on the Settings tab,
and it doesn't matter what
country or currency you select,
so select your own if you want.
I'm just gonna use US for now.
And what you're gonna do is
you're gonna scroll down here okay,
and we're gonna complete
seven steps together okay and
when you create your tickers
after you finish this exercise,
you can always click here
to find the correct ticker
if you can't find it, right,
and this will help you with international
as well as domestic tickers here okay.
And so for example
if you're gonna pick a Brazilian stock,
sometimes it'll be
.SA afterwards.
So just play around with it in Yahoo Finance.
I'm not gonna click that
but I think you get the idea.
Okay let's go back to Exercise Number 18.
So let's scroll down.
And now we're gonna follow these steps
and this will make a lot more sense to you very soon.
This is pretty cool.
So step one, we're gonna open your browser.
Okay and what I'll do is I'm gonna put
the browser window here side by side.
And these are the tickets
we're gonna use in a second.
So what I'll do is this
and then I'll go back here.
I'll do that.
And then I am going to put this here,
and then that right there.
Okay good.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna go to Yahoo Finance.
So finance.yahoo.com.
Okay great.
And then create a user ID and sign in okay.
Then what you're gonna do is
you're gonna click on Portfolio here,
and if you haven't signed in yet,
you can sign in right now.
So I'll just, let me just sign in.
Add account, I don't know what that means.
Okay great, so, now what we're gonna do
now that we're signed in is
we are gonna create a new portfolio.
So I'll go to portfolio, click on it.
And then we're gonna create a portfolio here.
And I'll call this portfolio
Exercise
18 Portfolio.
Please do the same thing on yours.
And you can have it in US dollars
or any currency you want.
Just leave it at US for now.
Okay next.
Okay.
Great, we created a new portfolio.
Now we have to do is
we have to enter in the tickers.
So you click on Add Symbol
and you'll enter in the 10 tickers,
and I'll show you which tickers to use.
So you can click here or up here, same thing.
Add Ticker.
Now
these are the tickers we're gonna enter in okay.
And so let's enter them in one by one,
and I'm gonna go on fast mode for a second here
just so I don't waste your time.
Okay great they're all added
and you can sort them.
So I'll just sort here alphabetically.
Now what we're gonna do is
we're gonna create a New View okay.
So I'll click New View here okay.
And then I'm gonna edit which columns are shown.
Okay there's not that many columns that are not shown here,
and lots and lots columns for data analysis exercise later.
Edit View okay.
And make sure they're all selected okay.
Select all.
Looks like they are which is great,
but just make sure they're all selected,
every single one.
Great.
Save.
Okay cool.
Now we have a ton of data okay,
and you'll notice that not every field is populated,
and it's because I'm actually,
I'll leave it back here sorry,
I'm actually doing this
at three o'clock in the morning California time.
And so when the market is open,
you will see these fields okay.
Great.
Now
what we're gonna do is
we're going to copy all this data okay.
And please make sure that you copy
starting at the word Symbol here.
You gotta copy the header as well.
And this will make a lot of sense to you in a minute.
So right here you can see your portfolio.
This is the image.
And then here in Yahoo Finance,
you're gonna click on Symbol,
highlight all the way down to the bottom,
and then copy it.
So let me do this first.
So I'm gonna go here,
make sure you select all of it,
copy,
and then what I'm gonna do is
here on cell A200,
I'm gonna click Paste.
And voila.
All of our data has now been entered.
Great.
Cool.
Step eight, what we're gonna do is
were gonna go to our Portfolio Management System
by clicking the Your Portfolio button.
Let me just maximize the screen
so we can get the real estate here.
Okay Your Portfolio, click.
And what you'll see is you'll see
all the tickers are added here.
Isn't that cool?
So they're all automatically added here.
Let's go through it really quickly okay.
And this here is just basically telling you how to insert
the tickers which we just did here in the Settings section.
So here we've got all 10 tickers that we added okay.
There's also a couple of
ETFs that are added as well.
See here, you got some ETFs, great.
And
I'll discuss every single column,
what all this stuff means really soon,
but let me just show you quickly what we got here.
So I have a lot of
background formulas and whatnot,
no code, just formulas
that's basically telling every single data point
that you pasted where to go in the spreadsheet.
This will make sense okay.
And so you'll see here if we scroll across
the Daily Percent Change,
you could see the ones
that perform the worst
and ones that perform the best.
And so this was a day, I guess,
when the markets did really well.
So there's not that many stocks
that were down that day
which is red, and green is up,
and you can see which ones are up the most.
So the SLV
was up the most
which is the ETF for Silver okay.
And we'll talk about clients soon.
Here are the stocks that were down,
you can see in red.
You can scroll over here.
You can see the Change From 52-week high, low, et cetera,
and I'll explain what all of this stuff means very soon.
And this here is the Dividend Yield.
And I created this kinda fun star system here
using Conditional Formatting
to have a full star if it's a higher dividend yield,
and no star or an empty star if it's a lower dividend yield.
And I'll explain what this means very very soon okay.
And I'll explain also how to create this entire spreadsheet,
meaning every single thing we've done in this entire course,
this entire spreadsheet
in the second last section in this course.
It's optional but if you wanna,
I can teach you from scratch
how to create all this stuff.
It's a lot of fun too.
Okay great.
And then you'll see some white cells, which,
again when you see a white cell,
it's stuff you're allowed to enter in,
so you put the Purchase Price,
the Purchase Date, the Shares Owned, et cetera.
And I also created a field called
Have You Owned it for More Than a Year for tax reasons.
If you sell a stock within one year,
usually you pay more taxes
than if you held it for more than a year.
And this is pretty cool here.
This basically picks up automatically
all the sectors if you use a stock in S&P 500.
And so IBM is a tech company.
General Electric is an industrial company.
Coke, ticker KO is consumer staple, et cetera.
Exxon is energy.
And there's no categories here for these ETFs.
And then I listed here Sector Driver,
what makes the stock or the sector move.
So for Apple, it's Product Cycle.
Whenever they announce a new
iPhone or whatever it is,
investors get excited,
and that's called a catalyst
which helps a stock do well.
And I've also entered in other stuff here.
Okay great.
So we are now done.
Let's scroll back with Exercise Number 18.
And if you want,
just play around by entering your own tickers
back of course only in the Settings button,
and I'll show you again where to do that.
Click Settings.
Scroll down.
Right here we go.
And then what you do is just follow these steps here,
and if you can't find the right ticker,
again you can click that okay.
So just follow these seven steps,
and the eighth step is just a look at the results.
And we'll build on this logic in future exercises.
So we just added stocks to this portfolio.
What we'll do now is in future exercises,
after I explain what every single column means,
we're gonna do something similar
and add commodities, bonds,
real estate investment, trust, et cetera.
And as always if you have questions,
please let me know.
Thank you.